# DBSCAN

Check out the live web app at https://ecowley-dbscan.herokuapp.com/

Credit to [this page provided by scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/cluster/plot_linkage_comparison.html) for instruction on how to generate blobs. 

Credit to the excellent [wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DBSCAN) for its pseudocode on the dbscan algorithm.

### Introduction

The goal of this project was to implement the classic dbscan clustering algorithm. This was for
educational purposes; the aim was to understand how it works, not to build something that can
compete with the highly optimized `sklearn.cluster.dbscan`.

### Vocabulary

* `eps` is the maximum distance apart two points may be in order to be considered neighbors.
* `minpts` is the minimum number of neighbors that a point must have in order for the group of points to be considered a cluster.

### How it works

1. Select a point that does not already have a label.
2. Query for neighbors that are within the `eps distance` of the point
3. If at least `minpts` are found, add a new label on the first point and put the neighbors in a `set` called `neighbors`. Else, label the point noise and go back to step 1.
4. For every point in `neighbors`, add the same label, then query for neighbors and add those points to the `set`. Continue until all points in the set are handled.
5. Repeat steps 1-4 until all points are labeled.

### Time Complexity

DBSCAN is `O(n^2)` because it must find the distance between every two points in the dataset.

My implementation takes 4-7 seconds to run on a dataset of 700 points. sklearn's implementation takes in the milliseconds to run. This is due to optimizations that I
was unable to look into in the short amount of time I had for the project.
